# XDR Webex Bot

This project is a Ready to Use Webex Bot I created for XDR use cases. 

It can be used for any other similar purposes for sure, but my goal was to have this ready to use component I can attach to any XDR tenant in 5 minutes, and finally use it as an advanced alerting system for XDR.

This alerting system can receive alerts from XDR formated into nice adaptive cards. The adaptive cards are generated by XDR workflows and they contain buttons to be used for triggering Response actions directly from the webex formular. 

Any click on buttons will be captured by this Bot and will trigger XDR workflows thanks to webhooks.

Based on the same idea, it will be possible to enter some keywords into webex chat that will trigger actions ( workflows ) into XDR.

And for all this, having the capability to pass variables from the webex chat to the XDR workflows that are triggered.

This is a packaged version of the Webex Bot described into the serie I named : **webex_for_xdr**  parts 1 to 7 which describe step by step how to build it.

[webex_for_xdr...serie](https://github.com/pcardotatgit/webex_for_xdr_part-1_card_examples)

This package is a version of the Websocket Webex Bot described here :

[webex_for_xdr_part-5_websocket](https://github.com/pcardotatgit/webex_for_xdr_part-5_websocket)

# Installation

## Prerequisit

You must have created a webex bot first. 

Have a look to the instructions here for that [Create a webex bot](https://github.com/pcardotatgit/Create_a_Webex_bot_for_XDR_Alerts)

Open a terminal console.

## very fast install for windows users

- type a
- then type b
- then type c
- then type d
- finally type e

ok now you can run the bot by typing

- first  : a
- second : b

## Here under the step by step installation if you don't use the procedure just above

## Step 1. Create a working directory

Create a working directory into your laptop. Open a terminal CMD window into it. Name It XDR_BOT for example.

## Step 2. Copy the code into your laptop

The Download ZIP Method

The easiest way for anyone not familiar with git is to copy the ZIP package available for you in this page. Click on the Code button on the top right of this page. And then click on Download ZIP.

Unzip the zip file into your working directory.

The "git clone" method with git client

And here under for those of you who are familiar with Github.

You must have a git client installed into your laptop. Then you can type the following command from a terminal console opened into your working directory.

    git clone https://github.com/pcardotatgit/webex_for_xdr_part-5_websocket.git

## Step 3. Go to the code subfolder

Once the code unzipped into your laptop, then Go to the code subfolder.

## Step 4. Create a Python virtual environment

It is still a best practice to create a python virtual environment. Thank to this you will create a dedicated package with requested modules for this application. 

### Create a virtual environment on Windows

    python -m venv venv 

### Create a virtual environment on Linux or Mac

    python3 -m venv venv

Depending on the python version you installed into your Mac you might have to type either 

- python -m venv venv

or maybe

- python3 -m venv venv    : python3 for python version 3.x  

or maybe 

- python3.9 -m venv venv  : if you use the 3.9 python version

And then move to the next step : Activate the virtual environment.

### Activate the virtual environment on Windows

    venv\Scripts\activate

### Activate the virtual environment on Linux or Mac

    source venv/bin/activate    

## Step 5. Install needed python modules

You can install them with the following 2 commands one after the other ( Windows / Mac / Linux ):

The following command might be required if your python version is old.

    python -m pip install --upgrade pip   

Then install required python modules ( Windows / Mac / Linux )

    pip install -r requirements.txt
    
For information requirements.txt mention the **webex_bot** python module which is the key module for this project.

You can install it separately thanks to the **pip install webex_bot** command.

If you intend to use a python module for creating your adaptative cards ( which is not the case is this projet ), then you must install the **adaptativecardbuilder** module ( **pip install adaptativecardbuilder** )

In this project we build the adaptative card thanks to dictionnary building and we convert the final result into json at the end.

## Edit config.py and Set the initialization variables

This config file contains several variables. 

The **BOT_ACCESS_TOKEN** variable is mandatory to have the bot work.

The second variable **DESTINATION_ROOM_ID** is optionnal. It is needed by the **4-send-advanced_dynamic_alert_message_to_room_example.py** script you might recognize if you went thru all chapter of this webex bot for XDR project.

**DESTINATION_ROOM_ID**  must be your Own Room ID !. It is needed by the **4-send-advanced_dynamic_alert_message_to_room_example.py** script for sending an example of alert formular into the room.

If you don't know you room id. you will be able to see it into the bot console when you will send any message to the bot.

This config file contains as well the XDR webhooks that are attached to every XDR workflows to trigger into custom variables you will have to use within the API calls the bot will do  to XDR

- XDR_WEBHOOK_FOR_KILLING_PROCESS
- XDR_WEBHOOK_FOR_INVESTIGATION

## Run the Bot

    python run_bot.py
    
You should see the bot starting until you see the message : **Websocket Opened**

At that point the bot is ready.

The next step is now to go to webex client, contact the bot by it's mail and create a space with it. And then send messages to it.

Try to send anything and have a look to the bot console. Logs are very detailed. They allow you to understand everything that happen ! 

You can try to send the following commands :

- temp : the bot will send you back a message with the current temperature in Paris
- alert : the bot will send you back the alert adaptive card we used in the previous sections. And you can select objects into the formular

## Code architecture and how to add new commands

The main script is the **run_bot.py** one. This is the script to run and this one use the others scripts as resources.

The **alert_card.py** script manages the adptative card generation.

The **engine.py** is the script which manages the commands ( keywords ) to send to webex room and associated actions. You have to edit this file to add the python functions that will be triggered by click on buttons or keywords sent to webex.

This script contains a few examples of such commands coming from either manual inputs or click on a button.

Search for the **command_keyword** variable in each function init subfunction. It contains the string that will trigger the attached function which is just bellow. 

For click on button, the command_keyword is the name of the input section declared into the Adaptive card JSON definition. We have 2 examples **observables** and **targets**.

Here is here under how to add your own new command :

Step 1 edit the **engine.py** script and add a new **cmd class** like the example bellow

    class cmdXXX(Command):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__(
                command_keyword="alert",
                help_message="Ask Service to XDR",
                card=None,
            )

        def execute(self, message, attachment_actions, activity):
            alert_message="Suspicious Activity Detected"
            cards_content=create_card_content(alert_message) # result is actually a list that contain one item which is a dictionnary
            response = Response() 
            response.text = "XDR Alert !"
            # Attachments being sent to user
            response.attachments = cards_content[0]
            return response

Replace XXX by a new number if you follow my own logic

In the **def __init__(self):**  function declare the command string you want to track

    command_keyword="new_command_string",

The **def execute(self, message, attachment_actions, activity):**   will be automatically launched if the string command above was sent to the bot. This is the location to insert all code instructions that must be executed.

This function ends with a **return** statement which will be a message to send into the webex room. It can be either a text, or an adpative card like as the example above.

Step 2 add the command to the bot

Edit the **run_bot.py** script and add the **cmdXXX** into the import section :

    from engine import cmd,cmd2,cmd3,cmd4, cmdXXX
    
And add a new **bot.add** command before the last **bot.run()** command 

    bot.add_command(cmd3())
    bot.add_command(cmd4())
    bot.add_command(cmdXXX())
    bot.run()
    
And that's it !!  You can run the bot and test your new command.